Problem (fix #294): no spec for subscriptions module (#323)
crypto-com/chain-main: x/subscription/spec/02_state.md

<!--
order: 2
-->

# State

The `x/subscription` stores the plans and subscriptions on chain:

```golang
type Plan struct {
  id int,  // auto-increasing unique identifier
  title string,
  description string,
  owner Address,  // beneficial owner of the plan
  price Decimal,  // price of fiat currency show to user
  price_currency String,  // fiet currency name
  rate Decimal,  // fiat-token conversion rate, maintained by owner

>   

Reviewer: rate to what ? what if e.g. one transfers in a stablecoin or a different asset over IBC and would want to create a subscription with that

Author: - added a `token_denomation` field.
- for stablecoin, merchant can maintain a near 1 conversion rate.

Author: removed rate, use fixed token denomination.

<!--
order: 2
-->

# State

The `x/subscription` stores the plans and subscriptions on chain:

```golang
type Plan struct {
  id int,  // auto-increasing unique identifier
  title string,
  description string,
  owner Address,  // beneficial owner of the plan
  price Decimal,  // price in fiat currency show to user
  fiat_currency String,  // fiat currency name

>   token_denom String,  // denomation of token

Reviewer: how is `String` different from `string`? good to make it clear with the respect to: https://github.com/crypto-com/chain-main/issues/336

I guess it can be made more general by being called e.g. `plan_denom` or `plan_currency` (instead of `fiat_currency`) and `subscriber_denom` (instead of `token_denom`) in the case there are use cases where the plan isn't denominated in fiat?

Author: Use `Coin` directly now, which should be well defined concept already I think.

>   conversion_rate Decimal,  // conversion rate from fiat currency to token, maintained by owner

Reviewer: probably good for @christopher-crypto to comment on this one -- maybe it'll be more practical to submit it each time with the collection message (so that there's less delay between rate setting and collection)?

Author: used fixed denomination now.

  interval int, // number of seconds of payment period

>   timezone Timezone, // the timezone used to offset the time interval

Reviewer: timezones are definitely needed on the client / UX side -- for this network-only state, Unix time is enough (one can just use the interval and display it with the respect to the local settings) or will it create any problems?

Author: It's for calculating a period index for local timezone, since `block_time / interval` is different from `(block_time + 8hours) / interval`.

Author: changed `timezone` to more general `interval_offset`, to specify intervals more flexible.

>   last_collection_period int, // period index = (timestamp + timezone_offset) / interval

Reviewer: probably good for @christopher-crypto to comment on this one -- is ok to collect on the plan-level, or on the subscriber-level (given subscriptions start at different times)?

Reviewer: @christopher-crypto : real world may need both; but ok to start with the set interval

Author: stick to unified plan level collection time for now.

>   last_collection_period int, // period index = (timestamp + timezone_offset) / interval

Reviewer: maybe needs to be stored on the subscription level for a manual retry (if there's automated begin block collection)

Author: done

> }

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should have expiration_date as well - this would be for cases like phone plans where it's a subscription until a certain date

Author: both plan and subscription support `expiration_time` now, automatically stopped when expired.

type Subscription struct {
  planId int,
  subscriber Address,

> }

Reviewer 2: Or maybe expiration_date should be added here

Author: it's added in both plan and subscription now.

> <!--

Reviewer: I guess ok for these to be Golang types or use protobuf for consistency?

Author: it seems cosmos has a pattern to use golang types in [state spec](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/slashing/spec/02_state.md), but protobuf in [messages](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/slashing/spec/03_messages.md).

order: 2
-->

# State

The `x/subscription` stores the plans and subscriptions on chain:

```golang
type Plan struct {
  id int,  // auto-increasing unique identifier
  title string,
  description string,
  owner Address,  // beneficial owner of the plan
  price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

>   expiration_time int,  // the timestamp in seconds when plan expires, it will be removed automatically

Reviewer: so this is like "global" expiration time and each subscription has its own expiration time? 
maybe both options are possible as per @christopher-crypto -- in here, maybe it'll make sense to have something like "duration" in Plan and subscription's expiration will be "block_time + plan duration" ?

Author: this is the expiration time of the whole plan, the whole plan is stopped after this time.

Author: Plan don't expire now.

<!--
order: 2
-->

# State

The `x/subscription` stores the plans and subscriptions on chain:

```golang
type Plan struct {
  id int,  // auto-increasing unique identifier
  title string,
  description string,
  owner Address,  // beneficial owner of the plan

>   price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

Reviewer: how would it work though? charge all of them or try charging one-by-one?

>   price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

Author: Charge a portfolio of coins?

>   price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

Reviewer 3: It should charge all of them. It is consider as one single set of coins.

>   price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

Reviewer: not sure if there is any use case for that -- I'd favour the current simpler version

>   price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

Reviewer: @christopher-crypto may comment if it'd be useful to charge several currencies on a single subscription at a time?

>   price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

Reviewer 3: Yes, I think single Coin should work in most subscription use case, I also don't have sth in mind for mutliple coins at this moment.

The reason I suggest is I see other modules are doing it, so it is not hard to support (After all `Coins` is just an array of `Coin`, and the `Bank` keeper is supporting sending `Coins` instead of `Coin` actually (https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/bank/keeper/send.go#L19)

But I do agree because in fact on our current chain, all messages. e.g. `MsgSend`, we are always having only one token (`basetcro`) inside `Coins`.

>   price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

Author: Since there's transfer for coins, then I think it's trivial to change it to `Coins`.

>   price Coin,  // price to pay for each period, Coin contains both amount and denomination

Author: done

  expiration_time int,  // the timestamp in seconds when plan expires, it will be removed automatically
  tolerate_failure bool, // if false, it'll automatically cancel subscriptions fails to pay, otherwise merchant can handle them manually

  interval int, // payment interval defined in number of seconds

>   interval_offset int, // interval offset in terms of seconds to support timezones or any arbitrary time offsets

Reviewer 4: Can you share the use case of using `interval_offset` to help me better understanding this? Thanks

>   interval_offset int, // interval offset in terms of seconds to support timezones or any arbitrary time offsets

Reviewer 3: Can you share a few usecases of `interval_offset` to help me better understand it. Thanks!

Author: > Can you share a few usecases of `interval_offset` to help me better understand it. Thanks!

For example:
```
# 0-24 hour in UTC
period index = timestamp / (24 * 3600)
# 0-24 hour in UTC+8
period index = (timestamp + 8 * 3600) / (24 * 3600)

Reviewer 3: Thanks

Author: In new revision, it changed to use crontab syntax to specify intervals.

<!--
order: 2
-->

# State

The `x/subscription` stores the plans and subscriptions on chain:

```golang
type SubscriptionPlan struct {
  id int,  // auto-increasing unique identifier
  title string,
  description string,
  owner Address,  // beneficial owner of the plan
  price Coins,  // price to pay for each period, Coins contains both amount and denomination
  subscription_duration int,  // duration of subscriptions
  cron_spec CronSpec,  // Configure time intervals, parsed from crontab syntax
  cron_tz Timezone,  // timezone for cron_spec
}

type Subscription struct {
  plan_id int,
  subscriber Address,

>   create_time int, // the block time when subscription created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  create_time int, // the block time when subscription was created
```

  // the timestamp of last successful collection,
  // default to the current block time round-down against cron spec

>   // subscriber don't pay for the period it get created in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // subscribers don't pay for the period it gets created in
```
